# Javascript

## Comments [114]

We have two types of comments. Inline, and multi-line.

```js
// this is an inline comment

/* this is
a
multi
line
comment
/*
```

> Best Practice
> As you write code, you should regularly add comments to clarify the function of parts of your code. Good commenting can help communicate the intent of your code—both for others and for your future self.


## Declare JavaScript Variables [115]

> JavaScript provides seven different data types which are undefined, null, boolean, string, symbol, number, and object.

- Any of the seven data types may be stored in a variable.
- Variable names can be made up of numbers, letters, and $ or _, but may not contain spaces or start with a number.

For now I know about ES6 `let` and `const` and more information about scope. Probably it will come later.

### Instructions
```js
// Example
var ourName;

// Define myName below this line
var myName;
```

## Storing Values with the Assignment Operator [116]

`myVariable = 5;` Assigns the Number value 5 to myVariable.

### Instructions
- Assign the value `7` to variable `a`.
- Assign the contents of `a` to variable `b`.

```js
// Setup
var a;
var b = 2;

// Only change code below this line
a = 7;
b = a;
```

## Initializing Variables with the Assignment Operator [117]

It is common to initialize a variable to an initial value in the same line as it is declared.

`var myVar = 0;` Creates a new variable called myVar and assigns it an initial value of 0.

### Instructions
Define a variable a with var and initialize it to a value of 9.

```js
// Example
var ourVar = 19;

// Only change code below this line
var a = 9;
```

## Understanding Uninitialized Variables [118]

Points:

- When JavaScript variables are declared, they have an initial value of undefined. 
- If you do a mathematical operation on an undefined variable your result will be NaN which means "Not a Number". 
- If you concatenate a string with an undefined variable, you will get a literal string of "undefined".

Question: is it good practice to declare a variable and leave it uninitialized?  
According to [this](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_best_practices.asp) it is good practice to initialize variables for the following reasons:

- Give cleaner code
- Provide a single place to initialize variables
- Avoid undefined values
- **Initializing variables provides an idea of the intended use (and intended data type).**

Here's an example:

```js
// Declare and initiate at the beginning
var firstName = "",
    lastName = "",
    price = 0,
    discount = 0,
    fullPrice = 0,
    myArray = [],
    myObject = {};
```

### Instructions
Initialize the three variables a, b, and c with 5, 10, and "I am a" respectively so that they will not be undefined.

Answer:
```js
// Initialize these three variables
var a = 5;
var b = 10;
var c = "I am a";

// Do not change code below this line
a = a + 1;
b = b + 5;
c = c + " String!";
```


## Understanding Case Sensitivity in Variables [119]

`MYVAR` is not the same as `MyVar` nor `myvar`. 

Javascript variables use camelcase.

### Instructions
Modify the existing declarations and assignments so their names use camelCase.
Do not create any new variables.

```js
// Declarations
var studlyCapVar;
var properCamelCase;
var titleCaseOver;

// Assignments
studlyCapVar = 10;
properCamelCase = "A String";
titleCaseOver = 9000;
```

## Add Two Numbers with JavaScript [120]

`myVar = 5 + 10; // assigned 15`

## Subtract One Number from Another with JavaScript [121]

`myVar = 12 - 6; // assigned 6`

## Multiply Two Numbers with JavaScript [122]

`myVar = 13 * 13; // assigned 169`

## Divide One Number by Another with JavaScript [123]

`myVar = 16 / 2; // assigned 8`

## Increment a Number with JavaScript [124]

`i++;`

is the equivalent of

`i = i + 1;`

Remember this from [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators):
```js
// Postfix 
var x = 3;
y = x++; // y = 3, x = 4

// Prefix
var a = 2;
b = ++a; // a = 3, b = 3
```

## Decrement a Number with JavaScript [125]

`i--;`

is the equivalent of

`i = i - 1;`

Also from [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Arithmetic_Operators);
```js
// Postfix 
var x = 3;
y = x--; // y = 3, x = 2

// Prefix
var a = 2;
b = --a; // a = 1, b = 1
```

## Create Decimal Numbers with JavaScript [126]

We can store decimal numbers in variables too. Decimal numbers are sometimes referred to as floating point numbers or floats.

FCC links to [this article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating_point#Accuracy_problems) to explain issues related to computers dealing with floats.

## Multiply Two Decimals with JavaScript [127]

`var product = 2.0 * 2.5; // 5`

## Divide one Decimal by Another with JavaScript [128]

`var quotient = 4.4 / 2.0; // 2.2`

## Finding a Remainder in JavaScript [129]

The remainder operator % gives the remainder of the division of two numbers.

### Example
```
5 % 2 = 1 because
Math.floor(5 / 2) = 2 (Quotient)
2 * 2 = 4
5 - 4 = 1 (Remainder)
```

### Usage
In mathematics, a number can be checked even or odd by checking the remainder of the division of the number by 2.

```
17 % 2 = 1 (17 is Odd)
48 % 2 = 0 (48 is Even)
```

### Note
!! The remainder operator is sometimes incorrectly referred to as the "modulus" operator. It is very similar to modulus, but does not work properly with negative numbers.

## Compound Assignment With Augmented Addition [130]

`myVar = myVar + 5;` or `myVar += 5;`

## Compound Assignment With Augmented Subtraction [131]

`myVar = myVar - 5;` or `myVar -= 5;`

